# Face Recognition Using Keras-OpenFace

The implementation is inspired by two path breaking papers on facial recognition using deep convoluted neural network, namely FaceNet and DeepFace.
<br>
I have used pre trained model Keras-OpenFace which is an open source Keras implementation of the OpenFace (Originally Torch implemented).
The pretrained model that I have used is by Victor Sy Wang's implementation and was loaded using his code: https://github.com/iwantooxxoox/Keras-OpenFace.

## One-shot learning
One of the approaches I have used is the **One-shot learning approach**.  Normally, in deep learning, we need a large amount of data and the more we have, the better the results get. The idea here is that we need to learn an object class from only a few data and that’s what One-shot learning algorithm is.In face recognition systems, we want to be able to recognize a person’s identity by just feeding one picture of that person’s face to the system. And, in case, it fails to recognize the picture, it means that this person’s image is not stored in the system’s database.
<p>
What one-shot learning does is compare the incoming image with previously stored images in our database. This database contains a single image of all the persons we want to recognize. The algorithm tries to determine how close the incoming image is to the stored images and generates a score correponding to each comparison. The minimum score which is below a threshold is chosen and the incoming image is recognized as that person.<br>
To compare two images a 128 dimensional vector corresponding to each of the images is used which is generated by the pre-trained OpenFace Model.
</p>
